README.md, before:

# Boost for Android
Boost for android is a set of tools to compile the main part of the [Boost C++ Libraries](http://www.boost.org/) for the Android platform.

Currently supported boost versions are 1.45.0, 1.48.0, 1.49.0 and 1.53.0. Boost 1.54.0 and 1.55.0 shall be considered experimental.

To compile Boost for Android you may use one of the following NDKs:

| NDK / boost | 1.45 | 1.48 | 1.49 | 1.53 |
| ----------- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| r4 customized by [Dmitry Moskalchuk aka CrystaX](http://www.crystax.net/android/ndk.php). | x |   |   |   |
| r5 from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                  | x |   |   |   |
| r5 customized by [CrystaX](http://www.crystax.net/android/ndk.php).                       | x |   |   |   |
| r7 customized by [CrystaX](http://www.crystax.net/android/ndk.php).                       | x | x | x |   |
| r8 from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                  | x | x | x |   |
| r8b from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                 |   | x | x |   |
| r8c from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                 |   |   | x |   |
| r8d from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                 |   |   | x | x |
| r8e from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                 |   |   | x | x |
| r10 from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                 |   |   | x | x |

# Quick Start

## Dependencies

 * NDK ([official](http://developer.android.com) or [customized by CrystaX](http://www.crystax.net/android/ndk.php))
 * GNU Make

## Usage

### Compiling

Linux.
```
./build-android.sh $(NDK_ROOT)
```
Windows:
```
build-android.bat $(NDK_ROOT)
```
NOTE: Do not forget to replace backslash with slashes in $(NDK_ROOT). For example set $(NDK_ROOT) to D:/android-ndk-r8e instead of D:\android-ndk-r8e
    
On windows you will need MSYS to be able to launch the corresponding bat files (http://www.mingw.org/wiki/MSYS).
    
This command will download and build boost against the NDK specified and output the final headers and libs in the `build` folder. Make sure to provide an absolute path the the NDK folder!

For more info about usage and available commands use `--help`.

### Including

Now that you got Boost compiled you must add it to your `Android.mk` file. Locate the `build` folder and copy the `include` and `lib` folders over to your project's `jni` folder. A recommended path inside your project is `/jni/boost/`.

Add the following to your `Android.mk` (note that here we're using Boost 1.48 and have assumed that Boost resides inside `/jni/boost`):

    LOCAL_CFLAGS += -I$(LOCAL_PATH)/boost/include/boost-1_48
    LOCAL_LDLIBS += -L$(LOCAL_PATH)/boost/lib/ -lboost_system -lboost_...

    LOCAL_CPPFLAGS += -fexceptions
    LOCAL_CPPFLAGS += -frtti

Now use `ndk-build` to build and have fun with it!

Note that you should build your project and Boost with the same version of NDK as the C++ STL inside NDK r4 and NDK r5 are not compatible in some subtle details.

## Contribute

The projects is split into two main branches, the master and devel. The master branch is where the current stable version lies and which should be used in most of the cases, the devel branch in turn is where development occurs. To contribute to the project make sure to use the devel branch which will make it easier to test changes and to merge incoming pull requests (PR).

## Troubleshooting

In case you encounter bunch of linker errors when building your app with boost, 
this might help:

### Building from a 64 bit machine (Linux)

Make sure you have installed the 32 bit libraries. Those are required to be able
to use the NDK.

To install them just use the following

    $ sudo apt-get install ia32-libs

### NDK 7 (CrystaX)

Add `-lgnustl_static` *AFTER* all boost libraries to the LOCAL_LDLIBS line in 
Android.mk. Example:

    LOCAL_LDLIBS += lboost_system-gcc-md lboost_thread-gcc-md -lgnustl_static

### NDK 8 (official)

Do everything that is in the NDK 7 Crystax section, but also
add full path to the gnustl_static library to the link paths. Example:

    LOCAL_LDLIBS += lboost_system-gcc-md lboost_thread-gcc-md \
                 -L$(NDK_ROOT)/sources/cxx-stl/gnu-libstdc++/libs/armeabi \
                 -lgnustl_static

Commit message:

Add readme and modify boost-1_55_0.jam for x86_64 build

README.md, after:

# Boost for Android

## Build for x86_64: 

Boost 1.55 NDK and Android NDK version 10e-rc4/android-21 

`./build-android.sh $ANDROID_NDK_HOME --boost=1.55.0 --with-libraries=date_time,math,random,thread,system`

Others:

Add a page.h in $ANDROID_NDK_HOME/platform/android-21/arch-x86_64/usr/include/asm/

Not sure why it didn't contain page.h in x86_64 asm


Boost for android is a set of tools to compile the main part of the [Boost C++ Libraries](http://www.boost.org/) for the Android platform.

Currently supported boost versions are 1.45.0, 1.48.0, 1.49.0 and 1.53.0. Boost 1.54.0 and 1.55.0 shall be considered experimental.

To compile Boost for Android you may use one of the following NDKs:

| NDK / boost | 1.45 | 1.48 | 1.49 | 1.53 |
| ----------- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| r4 customized by [Dmitry Moskalchuk aka CrystaX](http://www.crystax.net/android/ndk.php). | x |   |   |   |
| r5 from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                  | x |   |   |   |
| r5 customized by [CrystaX](http://www.crystax.net/android/ndk.php).                       | x |   |   |   |
| r7 customized by [CrystaX](http://www.crystax.net/android/ndk.php).                       | x | x | x |   |
| r8 from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                  | x | x | x |   |
| r8b from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                 |   | x | x |   |
| r8c from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                 |   |   | x |   |
| r8d from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                 |   |   | x | x |
| r8e from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                 |   |   | x | x |
| r10 from the [official android repository](http://developer.android.com).                 |   |   | x | x |

# Quick Start

## Dependencies

 * NDK ([official](http://developer.android.com) or [customized by CrystaX](http://www.crystax.net/android/ndk.php))
 * GNU Make

## Usage

### Compiling

Linux.
```
./build-android.sh $(NDK_ROOT)
```
Windows:
```
build-android.bat $(NDK_ROOT)
```
NOTE: Do not forget to replace backslash with slashes in $(NDK_ROOT). For example set $(NDK_ROOT) to D:/android-ndk-r8e instead of D:\android-ndk-r8e
    
On windows you will need MSYS to be able to launch the corresponding bat files (http://www.mingw.org/wiki/MSYS).
    
This command will download and build boost against the NDK specified and output the final headers and libs in the `build` folder. Make sure to provide an absolute path the the NDK folder!

For more info about usage and available commands use `--help`.

### Including

Now that you got Boost compiled you must add it to your `Android.mk` file. Locate the `build` folder and copy the `include` and `lib` folders over to your project's `jni` folder. A recommended path inside your project is `/jni/boost/`.

Add the following to your `Android.mk` (note that here we're using Boost 1.48 and have assumed that Boost resides inside `/jni/boost`):

    LOCAL_CFLAGS += -I$(LOCAL_PATH)/boost/include/boost-1_48
    LOCAL_LDLIBS += -L$(LOCAL_PATH)/boost/lib/ -lboost_system -lboost_...

    LOCAL_CPPFLAGS += -fexceptions
    LOCAL_CPPFLAGS += -frtti

Now use `ndk-build` to build and have fun with it!

Note that you should build your project and Boost with the same version of NDK as the C++ STL inside NDK r4 and NDK r5 are not compatible in some subtle details.

## Contribute

The projects is split into two main branches, the master and devel. The master branch is where the current stable version lies and which should be used in most of the cases, the devel branch in turn is where development occurs. To contribute to the project make sure to use the devel branch which will make it easier to test changes and to merge incoming pull requests (PR).

## Troubleshooting

In case you encounter bunch of linker errors when building your app with boost, 
this might help:

### Building from a 64 bit machine (Linux)

Make sure you have installed the 32 bit libraries. Those are required to be able
to use the NDK.

To install them just use the following

    $ sudo apt-get install ia32-libs

### NDK 7 (CrystaX)

Add `-lgnustl_static` *AFTER* all boost libraries to the LOCAL_LDLIBS line in 
Android.mk. Example:

    LOCAL_LDLIBS += lboost_system-gcc-md lboost_thread-gcc-md -lgnustl_static

### NDK 8 (official)

Do everything that is in the NDK 7 Crystax section, but also
add full path to the gnustl_static library to the link paths. Example:

    LOCAL_LDLIBS += lboost_system-gcc-md lboost_thread-gcc-md \
                 -L$(NDK_ROOT)/sources/cxx-stl/gnu-libstdc++/libs/armeabi \
                 -lgnustl_static
